=head1 ActivePerl 5.8 Change Log

For the latest information on ActivePerl, please see:

    http://www.ActiveState.com/ActivePerl/

=head2 Build 820 Wednesday, Jan 24, 2007

Build 820 is based on Perl 5.8.8.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes since build 819>

=over 3

=item *

PPM has been upgraded to version 4.01.

=over 3

=item *

The self-contained tkkits required by the Tcl module have been updated.

=item *

The PPM UI now supports install and uninstall of modules with
post-install or uninstall scripts.

=item *

PPM now always uses package.xml for the ActiveState repository and
doesn't fall back to downloading thousands of PPDs if the package.xml
file is temporarily unavailable.

=item *

PPM now runs post-install scripts in dependency order.

=item *

The --force option to 'ppm install' now allows files already installed
by other packages to be overwritten. Ownership of these files is
transferred to the new package.

=item *

Added --no-sync option to the 'ppm search', 'ppm install' and
'ppm upgrade' commands.

=item *

Added --max-ppd option to 'ppm repo sync' command.

=item *

Added 'ppm config' command.

=item *

Added 'ppm tree' command.

=item *

The 'ppm repo sync' command now always checks the server to see if
updates to the repository are available.

=item *

Improved compatiblity with PPD files from PPM3 repositories.

=item *

PPM4 now supports ZIP archives as the codebase of PPD files.

=item *

The 'ppm-shell' command on Windows now uses Term::ReadLine::Stub
for terminal I/O to provide command history recall.

=item *

On Windows, PPM state data is now stored in LOCAL_APPDATA instead of
APPDATA.  The database can be quite large and is therefore not suitable
for the roaming profile.

=item *

PPM now picks up modules from F<site>; but still looks in the F<perl>
area first.  This allows you to install Crypt-SSLeay in order to be
able to access C<https://...>-repositories.

=item *

Fixed a problem causing PPM to sometimes download package tarballs from
the wrong repository.

=item *

The PPM GUI now shows which repository a package comes from. The
Repository column is hidden by default.

=item *

The PPM GUI now warns about downgrades on modules selected for
installation which have a lower version number than the currently
installed version.

=item *

The PPM GUI used to drop all dependencies if some of them failed.  It
now keeps any remaining dependencies.

=item *

In the PPM GUI, package selection is not cleared if the install fails.
This makes it possible to retry without having to select all the same
packages again.

=item *

The PPM GUI now shows a download progress bar.

=item *

New PPM icon on Mac OS.

=back

=item *

There have been various improvements in Unicode handling on Windows.
Most of them rely on the fact that Windows stores a short 8.3 name for
each filename that is longer, or contains characters not in the system
codepage.  By using the short name Perl is able to access these files
throught the byte stream APIs that the Perl core is using.

If the generation of short filenames has been disabled, then filenames
containing characters outside the system codepage will still not be
accessible.  Since the short file names are stored by the file system,
this mechanism will also only work for existing files.  There is no
way to determine a short file name for files that have not yet been
created.

=over 3

=item *

readdir() and glob() will return the short name if the long name
cannot be represented in the system codepage.

=item *

The PATH environment variable is preprocessed and all entries using
characters that are not in the system codepage will be replaced with
their short name versions.  This preprocessing step will also remove
surrounding quote characters from all entries in the PATH variable.

The PATH cleanup happens early enough that F<perl.exe> will be able to
find scripts via the C<-S> commandline option in those "inaccessible"
directories.

=item *

Both $^X and the @INC entries derived from $^X (lib and site/lib
directories) will be converted to the short form, if necessary.

Note that installing ActivePerl into a directory whose name cannot be
represented in the system codepage is still discouraged.

=item *

Win32::GetCwd() will return a short name, if necessary, and
Win32::SetCwd() can accept a Unicode name.

=item *

The new Win32::GetANSIPathName() accepts a pathname that may contain
Unicode characters and returns the name in the system codepage.

The file or directory must already exist; otherwise characters not in
the system codepage will be translated using replacement characters
(usually '?'), resulting in a potentially invalid filename.

=item *

Win32::GetLongPathName() may return Unicode characters now.

=item *

Win32::GetFullPathName() will return a short name, if necessary.  Call
Win32::GetLongPathName() on the return value (in scalar context) to
get the full pathname in Unicode:

=item *

Win32::GetFolderPath() will return a short name, if necessary.  Call
Win32::GetLongPathName() on the return value to get the full pathname
in Unicode.

=item *

Win32::ExpandEnvironmentStrings() may return Unicode characters
because it will use the Unicode process environment directly.

Any changes to %ENV however will be propagated to the process
environment, and %ENV only stores byte strings.  There is currently
no API to set environment variables to a Unicode string.

=item *

Win32::MsgBox() now accepts Unicode strings for both the MESSAGE
and TITLE paramters.

=item *

Win32::LoginName() may return Unicode characters.

=back

=item *

The builtin Perl kill() function now support killing process trees by
using negative signal numbers on Windows too.  Currently kill() on
Windows will still only terminate processes owned by the same user,
even when the user is a member of the Administrators group.

=item *

Perl on Windows could hang indefinitely under certain conditions
involving more than one of: alarm(), sleep(), waitpid(), system() and a
GUI toolkit like Tk, wxPerl, Win32::GUI (or any other function that uses
a messageloop).  This indefinite loop should no longer occur.

=item *

The Windows installer now puts F<site\bin> in the PATH.

=item *

The Windows installer now detects and prevents installation on top of
ActivePerl 817 or earlier.  This is necessary because the changed
order of F<lib> and F<site/lib> in @INC would otherwise put old
modules from the previous installation in front of the new modules
bundled with this release.

Also see the installation guide for help on saving and restoring your
installed PPM modules with PPM-Profile.

=item *

The Windows installer for 64-bit ActivePerl will default the install
location to F<C:\Perl64> instead of F<C:\Perl>.  Installing both the
32 and 64 bit versions of ActivePerl into the same directory is not
supported.

The Start menu shortcut and the I<Add Remove Programs> entry for the
64 bit version are marked with a " (64-bit)" suffix to differentiate
them from the 32 bit versions.

=item *

Improved MingW compatiblity on Windows.

=item *

The lwp-request aliases GET, HEAD, POST are no longer installed; use
lwp-request directly instead.  These aliases created problems on
case-insensitive systems where they shadowed other commands.

=item *

Restored the old (pre 818) behaviour of
C<ActivePerl::DocTools::WriteTOC()>.  It now only warns if it can't
write to the F<perltoc.html> file.

=item *

ActiveState::Browser now also looks for C<xdg-open>, C<galeon> and
C<opera> on Unix.  It also knows how to detect KDE/Gnome properly.

=item *

ActiveState::Scineplex now has a JSON output mode.

=item *

Long hostnames are now supported on HP-UX.

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Archive-Zip-1.18
    Data-Dump-1.08
    DBD-SQLite-1.13
    HTML-Parser-3.56
    HTML-Tree-3.23
    Mac-Apps-Launch-1.93
    Mac-Errors-1.13
    Mac-Glue-1.30
    Win32-0.28
    XML-Simple-2.16

=item *

A patch has been applied to DBI-1.52 to make it more robust against
drivers not handling multiple result sets with different numbers of
columns correctly.  DBI wasn't upgraded to version 1.53 because that
one breaks compatibility with DBD-Sybase.

=back

=head2 Build 819 Wednesday, Aug 31, 2006

Build 819 is based on Perl 5.8.8.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes since build 818>

=over 3

=item *

HTML table of contents did not get updated as packages were
installed/removed.

=item *

libwww-perl package was not properly recorded by PPM.

=item *

Term-ReadLine-Perl was missing.

=item *

Upgradable packages no longer show packages with equal version number
in the PPM GUI.

=back

=head2 Build 818 Wednesday, Aug 16, 2006

Build 818 is based on Perl 5.8.8.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes since build 817>

=over 3

=item *

This is the first non-beta release of 64 bit ActivePerl.  It is
available for Windows and Linux on x64 as well as Solaris on Sparc.
The 64 bit Windows release does not include PerlScript, PerlEx, Perl
for ISAPI or PerlEz.

The 64 bit releases do not yet contain the Tcl and Tkx modules.

=item *

PPM has been rewritten; see Release Notes and L<ppm> for details.

=item *

All bundled modules and scripts are now installed in the C<perl> area
and the C<site> area is now completely empty in a new ActivePerl
installation.

=item *

Rearranged order of C<@INC>; modules installed in C<site> area now
take precedence over the bundled modules.

=item *

Simplified directory layout on Unix; no more architecture and version
specific directories.  This makes the layout the same as the Windows
version of ActivePerl.

=item *

Term::ReadLine console fix for Windows.

=item *

Avoid trying to read F<C:\dev\urandom> at startup on Windows.

=item *

The C<gridRemove> method has been enabled for Tk.pm.

=item *

The Win32::OLE module in libwin32 package has been upgraded from
version 0.1704 to version 0.1707.

=over

=item *

add special support for tlbinf32.dll from Microsoft

=item *

add support for receiving VT_RECORD and arrays of VT_RECORD

=item *

improve error handling logic

=item *

fix memory leak in Win32::OLE::Enum::All() and Win32::OLE::Enum::Next()

=item *

in ClearVariantObject() check IDispatch/IUnknown variants
for NULL before calling Release() on them

=back

=item *

Double quotes are now displayed properly in the HTML documentation.

=item *

F<DynaLoader.o> has now been moved into F<libperl.so> on Unix.  This
makes it easier to embed perl and is the same arrangement as perl on
Windows.

=item *

Added ActiveState::Browser module to ActiveState-Utils.

=item *

Most files of the Perl installation are now readonly on Windows.

=item *

Added a workaround for Module::Install brokenness that affected
ActivePerl::Config (introduced in build 815).  This prevented some
modules to install under the CPAN shell.

=item *

Added error checks after execing PL_cshname or PL_sh_path.

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Archive-Tar-1.30
    CGI 3.20
    Compress-Zlib-1.42
    HTML-Parser-3.55
    HTML-Tree-3.20
    Mac-AppleEvents-Simple-1.18
    Mac-Carbon-0.77
    Mac-Errors-1.12
    Mac-Glue-1.27
    threads 1.31
    threads-shared 1.01
    Term-ReadLine-Perl-1.0302

=item *

New bundled modules:

    DBI-1.52
    DBD-SQLite-1.12
    Math-BigInt-FastCalc-0.10
    Tcl-0.89
    Tkx-1.04

=back

=head2 Build 817.91 (818 Beta 2) Wednesday, Jul 19, 2006

Introduce PPM graphical interface and Tkx.

=head2 Build 817.90 (818 Beta 1) Wednesday, May 31, 2006

Introduce rearranged order of C<@INC> and the new PPM command line client.

=head2 Build 817 Wednesday, Mar 22, 2006

Build 817 is based on Perl 5.8.8.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 3

=item *

Upgraded the core threads and threads::shared modules with
threads-1.12 and threads-shared-0.99 from CPAN.  This fixes the handle
leakage on Windows and allows setting the stack size for new threads.
It also fixes both the '!=' comparison operator for thread objects and
the crashes while joining threads that go re-introduced in build 816.

=item *

Fixed several bugs in the new implementation of alarm() for Windows.
They did manifest themselves by signals not being delivered, or by GUI
applications randomly hanging.

=item *

Restored binary compatibility for SvPV_nolen() and similar macros.
This incompatibility made it impossible to use perlapp for Unix on Tk
based applications.

=item *

Reintroduce PL_memory_wrap for binary compatibility.

=item *

The C<require> builtin now ignores directories matching the given name
when searching @INC.

=back

=head2 Build 816 Thursday, Mar 2, 2006

Build 816 is based on Perl 5.8.8.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 3

=item *

Perl 5.8.8 has been incorporated.  See L<perl588delta.pod> for a list
of changes.

=item *

ActivePerl build 816 is now also available as a 64 bit Beta release
for Windows and Linux on x86_64 as well as Solaris on Sparc.  The 64
bit Windows Beta does not include PerlScript, PerlEx, Perl for ISAPI
or PerlEz.

=item *

The ActivePerl Community License has been clarified.  It now
explicitly allows you to redistribute certain parts of ActivePerl as
part of applications generated by wrapping tools such as by PAR,
PerlApp and Perl2Exe.  Please refer to the license text for actual
terms and conditions.

=item *

ActivePerl for Mac OS X is now a Universal binary that supports all
Macintosh hardware natively.

=item *

ActivePerl for Solaris is now built with the vendor compiler.
Previous releases were built with the GNU compiler (gcc).

=item *

C<ActivePerl::Config> on Solaris and HP-UX now provide compatibility so
that extensions can be built using gcc.  This happens automatically if
the vendor compiler is not available on the target system.

=item *

ActivePerl now ships with a preinitialized C<CPAN::Config> module.
This avoids the need to go through the configuration dialog the first
the CPAN shell is invoked.  The configuration dialog can still be
invoked by the C<o conf init> command to the CPAN shell.

=item *

Syntax colored documentation and ActiveState::Scineplex is now
supported for all the Unix platforms.

=item *

Passive transfer mode is now the default for C<Net::FTP>.  This mode
is more likely to work with modern firewall setups.

=item *

Problem where 'perl -s' wasn't able to parse -foo=bar switches has
been corrected.

=item *

The stat() builtin would not return the expected result when passed a
directory name with trailing slashes on Windows.  This problem has
been fixed.

This problem caused the rmtree() function of the C<File::Path>
module introduced in build 815 to fail for such directory names on
Windows.

=item *

The C<IO::Socket::INET> is now more efficient and it does not rely on
getprotobyname("tcp") to be functional any more.

=item *

A problem where long groups entries could cause memory exhaustion has
been fixed.

=item *

A problem with the alarm() function on Windows 2003 has been fixed.

=item *

The Tk module would sometimes fail to update the C<-cursor> attribute
of widgets for 64-bit builds of perl.  This problem has now been fixed.

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Digest-SHA-2.11
    HTML-Tagset-3.10
    HTML-Parser-3.50
    HTML-Tree-3.1901
    IO-String-1.08
    libwww-perl-5.805
    Mac-Errors-1.11
    Win32-OLE-0.1704

=back

=head2 Build 815 Wednesday, Nov 2, 2005

Build 815 is based on Perl 5.8.7.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 3

=item *

The PerlEx plugin for IIS has been added to ActivePerl for Windows.
It caches precompiled CGI scripts in memory to increase their
performance.

=item *

The table of contents for the HTML documentation has been reverted
back to the format used before build 813 (it no longer requires
JavaScript to be enabled).

=item *

ExtUtils::MakeMaker now generates and installs HTML documentation
automatically.  Regardless how modules are being installed (via PPM,
through the CPAN shell, or by manual compilation and installation),
the HTML documentation is always kept up-to-date.

=item *

Code snippets in the HTML documentation are syntax colored.  This
feature is currently only available on Windows and Mac OS X.

=item *

ActiveState::Scineplex has been added on Windows and Mac OS X.  This
module analyzes source code for various programming languages and is
being used to colorize the code snippets in the HTML documentation.

=item *

The ActivePerl::Config module has been added. It allows perl's
configuration options to be overridden.  The module can also
automatically reconfigure ActivePerl for alternative compilation
environments when the default compiler cannot be found.

On Windows, MakeMaker will use the F<gcc.exe> compiler from MinGW and
the F<dmake.exe> utility if the Microsoft Visual C++ compiler
F<cl.exe> and the F<nmake.exe> utility are not available on the
PATH. This will also work automatically from within the CPAN shell.

=item *

The F<perl-static> executable on Unix will now pick up a matching
Config.pm (there is no statically linked Perl on Windows).

=item *

File::Path's rmtree() function has been replaced to address
security vulnerability CAN-2005-0448.

=item *

Fixed incompatibility problem with Tk and Encode version 2.10 which was
introduced in build 813 (perl-5.8.7).

=item *

Win32::GetOSName() can now identify Windows Vista.

=item *

Various ActiveState::* utility modules have been added.

=item *

libwin32 has been updated to version 0.26:

=over 3

=item *

Win32API::File

New GetFileAttributes() function and corresponding constants.

Added GetFileSize(), getFileSize(), setFilePointer(), and
GetOverlappedResult() functions. The file position operations can use
Math::BigInt objects.

Experimental new object oriented interface added. This will be moved
into a separate module in a later release.

=item *

Win32API::Registry

Added DELETE/READ_CONTROL/WRITE_DAC/WRITE_OWNER/SYNCHRONIZE as KEY_*.

=item *

Win32::Clipboard

GetBitmap() should now work correctly with 1 bit, 4 bit, 8 bit,
16 bit, 24 bit, and 32 bit colors.

=item *

Win32::Console

Renamed GRAY to LIGHTGRAY and added definitions for the "real" GRAY
colors.

Added get_Win32_IPC_HANDLE() method so that Win32::IPC can wait
on a console handle.

Added SetIcon() method to change the icon of the window.

Don't export the scalar variables to %main:: but into the callers
namespace.

=item *

Win32::Process

Added get_Win32_IPC_HANDLE() method for Win32::IPC compatibility.

Added STILL_ACTIVE constant for GetExitCode().

Win32::Process::Open() now records the process ID correctly
for GetProcessID().  It also creates handle now that can be
used with the Wait() method.

=item *

Win32::Shortcut

The Save() function now calls Win32::GetLongPathName() on the filename
to make sure to use a fully qualified pathname.

The Save() will store the new filename as the 'File' property unless
the Shortcut object already has a 'File' property.

=back

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Archive-Tar-1.26
    Archive-Zip-1.16
    Compress-Zlib-1.41
    HTML-Parser-3.46
    IO-String-1.07
    Mac-Apps-Launch-1.92
    Mac-OSA-Simple-1.09
    Time-HiRes-1.76
    Unicode-String-1.09

=back

=head2 Build 814 Beta Tuesday, Jun 28, 2005

Build 814 Beta is based on Perl 5.8.7.  This release is provided as a
Windows MSI installer only.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 3

=item *

Bundled PerlEx, an ISAPI plugin for the IIS web server.

=item *

Built in ActivePerl:: module providing version information.

=item *

The C<gedi> program now actually runs.  This is a demo program
installed by the C<Tk> package.

=item *

Text-Autoformat module updated to version 1.13.

=back

=head2 Build 813 Tuesday, Jun 7, 2005

Build 813 is based on Perl 5.8.7.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 3

=item *

ActivePerl is now supported on the Mac OS X, Solaris (x86), and AIX platforms.

=item *

New improved HTML documentation which requires JavaScript enabled
browser.

=item *

Installation of the HTML documentation is now optional.

=item *

Perl 5.8.7 has been incorporated.  See L<perl587delta.pod> for a list of changes.

=item *

ActivePerl will now evaluate 'sitecustomize.pl' at startup if present.
The ActivePerl distribution does not ship with this file, but it is a
hook that the system administrator can use to set up set up additional
site specific @INC entries.

=item *

Fixed Net::Ping's ICMP implementation to not give up waiting for the
echo reply until it either receives an unreachable reply or times out.
Previous versions would for instance give up if they received a source
quench reply.

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Archive-Tar-1.23
    Compress-Zlib-1.34
    Convert-ASN1-0.19 (only for HP-UX)
    HTML-Parser-3.45
    HTML-Tagset-3.04
    libwww-perl-5.803
    XML-Simple-2.14

=item *

New modules

    Mac-AppleEvents-Simple-1.17
    Mac-Apps-Launch-1.91
    Mac-Carbon-0.74
    Mac-Errors-1.10
    Mac-Glue-1.25
    Mac-OSA-Simple-1.08
    MLDBM-2.01 (only for Mac OS X)
    Text-Autoformat-1.12
    Text-Reform-1.11
    Time-Epoch-0.02 (only for Mac OS X)
    Unicode-String-2.07

The "Mac-" modules are only present for Mac OS X as well.

=item *

The ActiveState-Rx module has been dropped from the distribution.

=back

=head2 Build 812 Monday, Jan 10, 2005

Build 812 is based on Perl 5.8.6.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 3

=item *

On Unix, provide a destructor for libperl.  This allows libperl to be
repeatedly loaded and unloaded by e.g. mod_perl without running out of
thread local storage slots.  On Windows this was already handled
correctly.

=item *

The reloc_perl -a option has been fixed.  It is now possible to relocate
from a shorter to a longer path.

=back

=head2 Build 811 Wednesday, Dec 1, 2004

Build 811 is based on Perl 5.8.6.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 3

=item *

Perl 5.8.6 has been incorporated.  See L<perl585delta.pod> and
L<perl586delta> for a list of changes.

=item *

Fixed stack corruption in the Tk-804.027 module.  This would sometimes
make Tk programs crash.

=item *

Fixed handling of Unicode in XML-DOM-1.43.  Some Unicode strings would
end up UTF-8 encoded when they should not be.  The XML::DOM module is
only distributed as part of ActivePerl on HP-UX.

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Archive-Tar-1.22
    Data-Dump-1.06
    Digst-MD4-1.4
    Encode-2.09
    HTML-Parser-3.38
    IO-Zlib-1.04
    libwin32-0.24 (only for Windows)
    libwww-perl-5.801
    libxml-perl-0.08 (only for HP-UX)
    perl-ldap-0.3202
    URI-1.35

In addition, IO::String version 1.06 is now included with
ActivePerl.

=back

=head2 Build 810 Monday, Jun 7, 2004

Build 810 is based on Perl 5.8.4.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 3

=item *

Perl 5.8.4 has been incorporated.  See L<perl584delta> for a list
of changes.

=item *

The default install location on Unix is now F</opt/ActivePerl-5.8>.
Earlier versions installed into F</usr/local/ActivePerl-5.8> by
default.

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Archive-Tar-1.08
    Compress-Zlib-1.33
    Data-Dump-1.03
    Digest-SHA1-2.10
    File-CounterFile-1.04
    Font-AFM-1.19
    HTML-Parser-3.36
    libwww-perl-5.79
    MD5-2.03
    perl-ldap-0.31 (only for HP-UX))
    Tk-804.027
    URI-1.30
    XML-Simple-2.12
    XML-XSLT-0.48 (only for HP-UX))

=back

=head2 Build 809 Monday, Feb 2, 2004

Build 809 is based on Perl 5.8.3.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 3

=item *

Perl 5.8.3 has been incorporated.  See L<perl583delta> for a list
of changes.

=item *

The Win32 module now includes the Win32::IsAdminUser() function that
checks if the current interpreter runs with Administrator privileges.

=item *

The access violations of detached threads on thread exit have been
fixed.

=item *

Time::HiRes now provides high resolution on Windows too.

=back

=head2 Build 808 Saturday, Dec 6, 2003

Build 808 is based on Perl 5.8.2.

I<Changes>

=over 3

=item *

Perl 5.8.2 has been incorporated.  See L<perl582delta> for a list of
changes.

ActivePerl build 808 is still being compiled with the
C<-DNO_HASH_SEED> option to maintain binary compatibility with earlier
releases.  Perl 5.8.2 implements a new rehashing scheme that will kick
in dynamically based on the actual data being stored in a hash.  This
new scheme is backwards compatible and is enabled in ActivePerl build
808.

=item *

The following modules are bundled with ActivePerl for HP-UX and have
been updated to their latest versions:

    Convert-ASN1-0.18
    XML-DOM-1.43
    XML-XPath-1.13
    XML-XSLT-0.45
    perl-ldap-0.30

=back

=head2 Build 807 Thursday, Nov 6, 2003

Build 807 is based on Perl 5.8.1.  This is the first release of ActivePerl
based on this new maintenance release of Perl.  This release is meant for
use in production systems.  However, owing to the sheer volume of changes
between Perl 5.8.0 and 5.8.1 that have been incorporated, please be sure
to test it thoroughly in a non-critical environment before you upgrade
your production systems.

Please check L<perl581delta> for a list of the major changes in Perl.
Only additional changes specific to ActivePerl are mentioned here.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 3

=item *

Perl 5.8.1 has been incorporated.  See L<perl581delta> for a list of changes.

B<Important note:> The new I<Hash Randomization> feature has been
disabled in ActivePerl because it is not compatible with Perl 5.8.0.
If we enabled this feature then some modules compiled with 5.8.0 would
not work correctly with 5.8.1 and most modules compiled with 5.8.1
would not work at all with Perl 5.8.0.  This would require maintaining
separate PPM module repositories for 5.8.0 and 5.8.1.

To enable the I<Hash Randomization> feature you must recompile
ActivePerl from source and remove the C<-DNO_HASH_SEED> definition
from the C compiler options.  In that case you must compile all CPAN
modules yourself too because the PPM repository binaries will not be
compatible.

=item *

Windows 2003 Server is now officially supported.  The installer adds
entries to the IIS6 "Web Services Extensions" list for both "Perl CGI"
and "Perl ISAPI".  Both are set to "Prohibited" by default and must
be explicitly changed to "Allow" in the IIS Manager.

Win32::GetOSName() detects the release version of Windows 2003
correctly.

=item *

ActiveState::Rx module has been included.  This module is necessary to
use the Rx Toolkit in ActiveState Visual Perl.  You must upgrade
Visual Perl to version 1.8.1 to use the Rx Toolkit with Perl 5.8.

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Archive-Tar-1.07
    Compress-Zlib-1.22
    Data-Dump-1.01
    Digest-MD2-2.03
    Digest-MD5-2.30
    Digest-SHA1-2.06
    File-CounterFile-1.01
    HTML-Parser-3.34
    HTML-Tree-3.18
    URI-1.27
    XML-Parser-2.34
    XML-Simple-2.09
    libwin32-0.21
    libwww-perl-5.75

In addition, IO::Zlib version 1.01 is now included with ActivePerl.

=back

I<PPM>

=over 3

=item *

The I<upgrade> command has been fixed.

=item *

It is now possible to install from a file URL while not being
connected to the Internet.

=item *

PPM now works on Windows even when the Term::InKey module is
installed.

=back

I<Perl for ISAPI>

=over 3

=item *

Perl for ISAPI no longer uses line buffering for STDOUT.  This is
especially important for running under IIS6 which bypasses TCP/IP
nagling and directly sends every packet individually.

=item *

Perl for ISAPI used to close all open file handles before shutting
down the Perl interpreter.  The intention was to prevent file handle
leaks from buggy Perl scripts while running inside the IIS process.
Unfortunately Perl may still execute END blocks or call DESTROY
methods during final destruction and some file handles may get closed
twice in this scenario.

This creates a race condition: the file handle may already have been
re-opened by a different thread before the second close happens.  Perl
then closes a file handle it doesn't own anymore.  This may cause a
different page request to fail.

To avoid this race condition Perl for ISAPI will no longer try to
automatically close open file handles.  Therefore it is possible that
broken Perl applications will now start leaking file handles if they
don't close them correctly themselves.

=back

=head2 Build 806 Monday, March 31, 2003

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 3

=item *

Several bug fixes and other improvements have been merged from the
Perl development track.  In particular, many of these fixes address
problems in the PerlIO implementation.  See the ActivePerl source
code diff for the complete list of included changes.

=item *

Other minor bug fixes and documentation updates.

=back

I<PPM>

PPM has been upgraded to version 3.1.  It fixes most of the known
problems, including:

=over 3

=item *

PPM 3.1 now provides all the functionality of PPM 2.0 and 3.0.
PPM 2.0 is therefore no longer included in ActivePerl 5.8.

=item *

PPM now works correctly through a proxy server requiring basic
authentication.  Previous versions of PPM 3.0 only supported
proxy servers that did not require authentication.

=item *

PPM is now more robust in handling user-defined repository URLs.
For instance, URLs with a trailing slash no longer result in
fatal errors.

=item *

Support for ASPN Perl profiles has been much improved.  However,
at the time of this writing, the ActivePerl 5.8 repositories
do not yet support profiles.  This is expected to become available
shortly.

=item *

In previous versions of PPM 3, incorrect search results from the
repository (such as package names that do not have corresponding
PPD files) could crash the PPM3 client.  PPM now generates meaningful
error messages under these circumstances.

=back

=head2 Build 805 Thursday, Feb 6, 2003

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 3

=item *

Several bug fixes and other improvements have been merged from the
Perl development track.  In particular, many of these fixes address
weaknesses in Unicode support.  See the ActivePerl source code diff
for the complete list of included changes.

=item *

Bugs in the Perl 5.8 integration of Perl for ISAPI and PerlScript
that resulted in failure to flush output correctly at the termination
of the script have been fixed.

=item *

On Windows, system() and backticks could return invalid status when
running under environments where the process has to handle Windows
messages.  PerlScript and Perl for ISAPI fall under this category.
The problem has been corrected.

=item *

On Windows, PerlScript and Perl for ISAPI were affected by a reentrancy
problem, which meant that recursive invocation of these two engines
could fail.  This problem has been corrected.

=item *

Tk and libwww-perl has been updated to their latest versions.

=item *

Win32::Shortcut no longer calls CoUninitialize() within an END block.
This avoids random coredumps from this module when its DESTROY methods
happen to get called after the END block executes.

=item *

PPM v2 and v3 can now optionally generate HTML documentation when
installing packages if POD documentation is found in the package.
This is controlled by the rebuildhtml option in PPM v2 and the
rebuild-html option in PPM v3.

=item *

Other minor bug fixes and documentation updates.

=back

=head2 Build 804 Friday, Nov 29, 2002

I<What's new in the 800 Series>

=over 3

=item *

This build corresponds to the Perl 5.8.0 source code release.

=item *

The 800 series builds of ActivePerl are not binary compatible with
builds in the 500 or 600 series.  Any extensions built using binaries
from the ActivePerl 500 or 600 series will need to be recompiled.
Note especially that this applies to PPM packages that may have been
built for 500 or 600 series builds.

=item *

Significant changes that have occurred in the 5.8.0 release
are documented in L<perl58delta>.

=item *

Support has been enabled for large file access on all platforms,
meaning that file manipulation facilities within perl can cope with
files larger than 2GB or 4GB.

=item *

Many new modules are included as a standard part of perl 5.8.0.  See
"Modules and Pragmata" in L<perl58delta> for a detailed list.
In addition, the Data::Dump module is now included with ActivePerl.
Many other modules have been updated to their latest versions.

=item *

PPM v3 is now included as the default C<ppm> executable.  PPM v2
continues to be available, and can be executed as C<ppm2>.

=back

